Cloud documentation (#383)
restatedev/documentation: docs/deploy/cloud.md

on your machine with `restate config use-environment local`. See the
[CLI docs](/operate/cli#using-the-config-file) for more.
</Admonition>

## Registering Restate services with your environment

You can use your Cloud environment exactly as a self-hosted one; register
services with `restate deployments register <service-endpoint>`.

However, currently your services must be accessible over the public internet for
Restate to be able to invoke them. If you want to develop using a
service running on your local machine, you can expose it using our tunnel
feature:
```bash
# expose localhost:9080 to Restate Cloud
restate cloud tunnel 9080
# copy the url from the output and register against your environment
restate dp add https://tunnel.us.restate.cloud:9081/...
```

### AWS Lambda services

To invoke services running on AWS Lambda, Restate Cloud needs to assume an AWS
identity in the same account that the Lambda is deployed to. Create a new role
that has permission to invoke your Lambdas and give it the following trust policy:

```json
{
  "Sid": "AllowRestateCloudToAssumeRole",
  "Effect": "Allow",
  "Principal": {

>     "AWS": "AROAZQ3DNV5IY6KP4ODO4"

Author: hmm, but doesn't that mean any role in our account could assume their role, as long as they set the external name?

the Restate server as if it was running on your machine:

```bash
restate cloud env proxy
curl localhost:8080/MyService/myHandler
```

### API tokens

For programmatic invocation, awakeable completion, or admin API usage from
scripts, CI pipelines, API gateways, or services that exist outside Restate,
you can create an API key in the UI, selecting an appropriate role for your use
case.

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $MY_API_KEY" https://201hy10cd3h6426jy80tb32n6en.env.us.restate.cloud:8080/MyService/MyHandler
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $MY_API_KEY" https://201hy10cd3h6426jy80tb32n6en.env.us.restate.cloud:9070/deployments
```

To use the CLI programmatically with this token:

```bash
export RESTATE_HOST_SCHEME=https RESTATE_HOST=201hy10cd3h6426jy80tb32n6en.env.us.restate.cloud RESTATE_AUTH_TOKEN=$MY_API_KEY
restate whoami
```

## Securing your services

### HTTP

Restate invokes your services over the public internet. For production use cases
HTTPS must be used between Restate and your services. You can apply a
certificate to the service directly, but its likely easier to use a fronting
load balancer like an AWS NLB.

> It is also a good idea to secure access to your service so that only Restate can
> call it. The easiest way to do this is with our native request identity feature.
> All requests to your service will contain a signature from a public key which can be seen in the UI. It's safe to include it directly in
> your service code:

Reviewer: Maybe a minor improvement?

```suggestion
You must secure access to your service so that only Restate can call it.
The easiest way to do this is with our native request identity feature.
All requests to your service will be signed with a unique environment-specific private
key. You can find the corresponding public key in the environment settings UI, under HTTP Services.
It is safe to include this public key directly in your service code:
```

---
sidebar_position: 4
description: "Learn how to use Restate Cloud."
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Admonition from '@theme/Admonition';

# Restate Cloud

<Admonition type="warning">
    Restate Cloud is an early-access preview. Features may change, and we offer
    no reliability SLAs at this time. Production usage is not recommended.
</Admonition>

> This page describes how to use Restate environments deployed on our early-access

Reviewer 2: Can we first add a sentence on what Restate Cloud actually offers? Something like `Restate Cloud is the managed service deployment of Restate. You deploy your services on Lambda or... When you create an account, you can create an environment.... An environment is.... `

```

### API tokens

For programmatic invocation, awakeable completion, or admin API usage from
scripts, CI pipelines, API gateways, or services that exist outside Restate,
you can create an API key in the UI, selecting an appropriate role for your use
case.

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $MY_API_KEY" https://201hy10cd3h6426jy80tb32n6en.env.us.restate.cloud:8080/MyService/MyHandler
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $MY_API_KEY" https://201hy10cd3h6426jy80tb32n6en.env.us.restate.cloud:9070/deployments
```

To use the CLI programmatically with this token:

```bash
export RESTATE_HOST_SCHEME=https RESTATE_HOST=201hy10cd3h6426jy80tb32n6en.env.us.restate.cloud RESTATE_AUTH_TOKEN=$MY_API_KEY
restate whoami
```

## Securing your services

### HTTP

Restate invokes your services over the public internet. For production use cases
HTTPS must be used between Restate and your services. You can apply a
certificate to the service directly, but its likely easier to use a fronting
load balancer like an AWS NLB.

It is also a good idea to secure access to your service so that only Restate can
call it. The easiest way to do this is with our native request identity feature.

> environment. All requests to your service will contain a signature from a public key which can be seen in the UI. It's safe to include it directly in

Reviewer 2: `environment.` Seems like a typo or a missing sentence?
